\--- layout: post title: Roll Your Own Garage Controller categories: [] tags:
[] status: draft type: post published: false meta: {} \---

I recently replaced my garage door and the opener. While researching options I
found that most openers now have a communication bridge or option to add the
controls after the fact. They also tend to have an option to allow deliveries
and the company delivering, an option to open the door and drop off the
package.

I understand that this seems like a decent idea. The ability must be opted
into, so you could not allow it if you want. This also means that the ability
still exists and could be used to grant access under some future law, or
already existing one. I do not like this possibility and inherently do not
trust that it will not be used maliciously. No matter how much a company uses
marketing to convince us that they understand security as much as they claim.
They are marketers and I guarantee that the engineers would have a different
perspective.

That being said, this method isn't any more secure. It's just not, by default,
connected to a remote service owned by a garage door company. It also does not
track usage for that company to then market more to you. It is protected by
several factors of authentication and the data stored it's for your use.

I eventually settled on a 1.25hp belt driven opener by genie. There is not any
smart system built in. It's powerful and ultimately cost half the price of the
others with less power and with built in connectivity. The problem I had to
solve was how to interface it to my system. The first test to see if I could
trigger the door to open or close was to bridge the contacts coming from the
wall button. It didn't work so, I am assuming that the button has a serial
interface or something that sends a verified signal. I didn't bother
attempting to capture that communication and replay it to do the action.
Instead I thought about directly using the button contacts to trigger it. That
would work but, I would rather put my electronics somewhere else in the area.
The opener did come with 2 remotes. Our van has a built in controller that
interfaces after. I only need to use 1 of the controllers and with the extra,
I could add that to my board for control. When opened, the controller had a
pcb that is about 2x1.5 inches. The button inputs are traces that conductive
rubber buttons trigger by shorting the pads. I could use these pads to
interface with my microcontroller. To make sure that the microcontroller did
not hard the controller or that the controller does not have the
microcontroller, I used an optoisolator to separate the systems. It's an
inexpensive method of interfacing circuits with differing voltages.

I tested the concept by triggering the input side of the optoisolator and
connecting the output across the pads. It worked! Next, design a pcb and
interface the hardware.

I have started to use fusion for it's pcb design. It's eagle, in fusion.
However, I stopped once I had to create custom chips because I wanted this
done quickly, so I went to the easiest method I know of, easyeda. It's crazy
that this exists and makes pcb design very easy to do anywhere. It's browser
based, so am asking is the only needed thing and it's free. The community
uploads tons of board layouts and jlcpcb is available for parts and board
manufacturing. Within a week or so you can have 10 boards for about $20. You
can even have parts shipped with it that you used to design with. They even
have board population and testing services. Crazy good service for
prototyping.

I created the schematic and board layout. Then I decided to finally try my
hand at isolation routing a double sided board using my CNC. This was the
learning curve I had to make it through and after 3 attempts I made a working
board. I used flatcam for the gcode generation and autoleveler to modify the
gcode after probing the surface of the PCB. I tried without autoleveling and
found out that I definitely need to use it. 1 board wasted. The second try I
realized I didn't do the 2 sided drilling holes correctly. After I figured out
the correct method, I was able to get an accurate alignment setup working. The
second board was ruined because of the alignment issue. The 3rd came out
really good except for the fact that isolation routing leaves copper close to
the trace and it's very hard to not bridge these. I remounted the board and
removed the copier between most traces. Some were not able to be removed die
to the cutter size. When soldering these parts, I used solder braid to remove
any bridges that occurred. After attaching all of the components, I tested
everything and it worked.

For this build I used a wemos d1 mini, optoisolator, reed switch and the
si7021 temperature/humidity breakout from adafruit. The reed switch is used to
determine if the door is opened or closed. This way I can verify the state.
The only reason it wouldn't update the state would be if the connection broke
or the door wasn't moving. The connection breaking is most likely not the case
and in either event, I would be able to determine that something is wrong and
therefore check on it.

Since I have the ability to read the door state, I could perform actions based
on it. If the garage lights are off and the door sensor changes to open, the
lights turn on. If the sun has set and the same thing occurs, the outside
lights also turn on. Then a message is sent to my phone letting me know that
the function has run and that the door is in an open state.

If the door closes, a notification is sent verifying the state once reached. I
am going to add a motion sensor to the circuit as well. Then I can write a
rule that checks the closed state and if true, starts a timer that once
reaches a threshold, turns the lights in the garage off. If motion is detected
within the time period, the timer restarts. This way the state of the for does
not determine the light state by itself and if I'm working in the garage, does
not turn the lights off.

The temperature and humidity are viewable and chats can show status over time.
With one in each room and outside, I can get a good understanding of why
things occur when they occur, over time. I can use this data to improve the
system and the efficiency of my home.

I'm waiting for a particulate sensei's to be in stock and once I get them,
each room will have it's own. Then I can automatically turn on hepa filtration
and circulation fans. Same with co2. All of this is baby steps towards an
invisible but, beneficial system to automate menial and time consuming tasks.

